We've talked about how React Native uses CSS in JS for
adding styling to your application and specifically, to your components.
What we haven't talked about,
is how React Native handles layout.
If you've been building for the web for awhile,
you're probably familiar with the idea of the block model and floats.
According to MDN, the float CSS property
specifies that an element should be placed along the left or right side of its container,
where text and inline elements will wrap around it.
In other words, floats lying to specify how elements are placed related to each other.
If you've been keeping up to date with the layout options in CSS for the last few years,
you've probably heard of flexbox.
Again, according to MDN,
flexbox is a layout mode intended to
accommodate different screen sizes and different display devices.
For many applications, the flexible box model is
easier than the block model since it does not use floats.
Flexbox is essentially a replacement on the old block model approach to layout.
And one, that in mind,
many other people's opinion is much better.
So naturally, react native chose to implement
flexbox for the layout over the original block model.
If you don't know flexbox, don't worry.
The whole next section is dedicated to help you learn it.
Now, if you do know what it is, you're pretty good shape.
There are however, some small differences between
the official flexbox specification in
react native implementation. We'll cover that as well.